crystite(1) -- headless Resonite server
================================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`crystite` [<flag>...]

## DESCRIPTION
Crystite is a custom headless server for Resonite for modern .NET. The
server comes with a variety of benefits, chief among them a faster and more
efficient runtime. In addition, the server exposes a REST API for programmatic
control over its execution and configuration.

The server is not a drop-in replacement for the stock headless client and
requires some additional configuration before you can run it. It does, however,
aim to be compatible with Resonite's own configuration format, allowing you to
reuse existing configuration files.

## OPTIONS
* `--force-sync`:
  Forcibly synchronizes the locally stored records to the cloud, overwriting any
  data already uploaded.
* `--delete-unsynced`:
  Deletes any unsynchronized records, redownloading them from the cloud.
* `--repair-database`:
  Attempts to repair and upgrade the local asset database.

## EXIT STATUS
0 on success; otherwise, a nonzero value. Error information is printed to
standard output and to the configured log files.

## ENVIRONMENT
Crystite loads configuration options from the environment via
[Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration][1], meaning that any configuration key in
a file on disk can be overridden by a corresponding environment variable.

Beyond these, Crystite does not read any specific environment variables.

## FILES
* /etc/crystite/appsettings.json:
  The main system-wide configuration file.
* /etc/crystite/conf.d/*.json:
  Drop-in configuration files; overrides the main configuration file on a
  key-by-key basis in lexicographical order.

## SEE ALSO
crystitectl(1),crystite(5)


[1]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration
